<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>Picking a Major</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="section level1" id="picking-a-major"><h1>Picking a Major</h1><p>“I just don’t think you would be well-suited to it.”</p><p>That was the response that I got when I first voiced my growing sentiment that I wanted to be a programmer. I don’t know if I knew myself well enough at the time to realize that statement would end up cementing my future.</p><p>Truthfully, I was a terrible computer scientist for years. I just didn’t have the mindset for it yet. When an error would spit out from my terminal, I had no sense of whether it was a real error or something to be ignored, much less whether it was my fault or how it might be fixed. But after a steady chorus of RTFM and a healthy helping of good old “telling me what to type”, I finally started getting the idea.</p><p>The kind of thinking that you do when programming is not the kind where you can get away with sloppiness. Laziness, sure. But you have to ask questions, and attack problems carefully, one step at a time. You have to learn to isolate problems and test your hypotheses.</p><p>Not only that, you also need to just know the machine, which means putting in the time at the machine.</p><p>I did put in the time, in the long run. My fascination with the machine led me to put a massive amount of hours into tweaking Linux, recompiling my drivers to get this or that working, extolling its values to friends and family, and installing it wherever I could.</p><p>So when someone tells you that they think you aren’t suited to something, I hope you will say, “Not yet, but I’m working on it.”</p></div>
</body>
</html>

