<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>Work Is Hard</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="section level1" id="work-is-hard"><h1>Work Is Hard</h1><div class="section level2" id="introduction"><h2>Introduction</h2><p>As a young person I was driven to succeed in education, because I thought it was the best way to not end up working a Burger King job. There’s a lot of things that I didn’t know as a young person, and knowing some of them much earlier would have made my life a lot easier. At the very least I would have been able to make my decisions more consciously, and I think that making decisions consciously makes it much easier to make good decisions that are hard, or that require constant maintenance. Letting “things just happen” seems to be the easiest way to end up in a world of hurt. That’s why I started writing this - so that kids from backgrounds where their parents can’t help them financially would have a reference for the things that they don’t need to learn the hard way.</p></div><div class="section level2" id="about-poverty-and-getting-out-of-it"><h2>About Poverty and Getting Out of It</h2><p>Poverty means a lot of different things to a lot of people, but if you think you are in poverty, and want to get out, then you can do it with education. I don’t intend to confuse or mislead you though - education is not an easy route to make lots of money. I don’t know if there is any easy route out of poverty. But I know there is a slow and reliable route by learning <em>all the things</em>. I doubt you’ll become a moneybags through education, as that isn’t really the point. People like Bill Gates and Steve Jobs and so forth had to have <em>some</em> education, but it wasn’t education that made either of them rich. It was their work ethic, a lot of luck, and taking risks that happened to pay off for them.</p><p>I’m not going to recommend risky options to you. I might point some out as we identify them in discussing the long road. At any point you might find that there’s a risky shortcut you can take to get you out of poverty fast, and as you become more educated and build more contacts these will become more and more frequent possibilities. You can take one of these routes any time you want! But keep in mind when you do that it is easier to go from zero to hero that it is to go from negative a million dollars to a house and car.</p><p>Are you sure you even want to exit the poverty level for income? There are a lot of styles of life that don’t really require much that you can be happy with. Having a great and loving family, being an incredible artist, and living from couch to couch with your friends are all alternatives that may work for your personality type. Some people even prefer to live on a sailboat! Education is a slow path, and it isn’t right for everyone. Think about it.</p><p>When I think about “exiting poverty”, I imagine myself with a working car, being able to support my hobbies of computers and musical instruments, a living space that can support those hobbies, and being able to go out with my friends when I want. This is what middle class means for me, and I couldn’t have gotten there without an education. I hope that you will think about what it means for you, so that you know what kind of income you need to make to support the kind of lifestyle you want to live.</p></div></div>
</body>
</html>

