<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>Winning At Working</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="section level1" id="winning-at-working"><h1>Winning At Working</h1><p>One of the things I never mastered until after college was figuring out how to win at my work environment setup. There’s a lot of things that have to come together to really get a place to study running smoothly, and I think it takes an exceptional amount of self-awareness to be able to call it when one part or another isn’t working out.</p><p>The success of your work environment is deeply tied into your emotional state so putting yourself into the state you need should be your primary goal when you manipulate your environment. Pay attention to how the things in your environment affect your mental gearing and do some elimination testing to pick what things can be in or out of that environment.</p><p>For me, I find that music is good for programming but bad for memorizing things. I find I need a clean environment, that isn’t too dark, and strongly prefer one with a view of the outdoors where I can gaze (or stare!) when thinking.</p><p>The state of the computer matters too. I can usually get away with and or get value from leaving messaging open if I’m performing asynchronous short programming chores, but not if I’m doing something serial like reading a long text.</p><p>One of the things that I finally mastered, that has helped me be far more productive, is learning how to manage rabbit holes. Figuring out how to pick out only one small part of the problem and solving just that goes a long way to getting the big goals done. Sometimes you just have to decide which parts on the problem are for tomorrow, and not worry about them until you’ve finished the parts you do know how to do. Often times you’ll find that either the answer becomes obvious when you finish the other parts, or that you don’t really need to interact with the auxiliary issues anyway. Especially if you are just beginning your studies in a field, the vastness of your tasks often can seem overwhelming, and letting the great unknown keep you from getting started will just mean you never get busy.</p></div>
</body>
</html>

